1. Quote by Schrodinger - each person reenacts (?) a path of someone before, the Self is a one common thing always, but the story of human has usually the same patterns. We live, we die, story within has different accents. 
2. First of all Plotinus is mentioned. Philosopher, who, in some way, described the unspokable One that's driving each human being. Wilber outlines that he managed to, generally speaking, be 'friends' with any person of any kind. Moreover, he always welcomed teenagers and kids, who were an example of natural attitude and in some way an everlasting positive approach toward existance. So he tackled life, created his own philo perspective (philosophy describing way of being + deepest realization of unity there was at the period of time) and shared himself with others. Good guy. I read that book in my native language and I remember some sort of disability to write - sentences were structured as if person is not sure, what to describe and its hard to comprehend, what's the message. 
3. The main conclusion is that we biologically evolved from creatures to beings that can express own-self. In forthcoming future, or even today, we erase ourselves. No one will gona witness the ending, there will be no story to be told. Herbert once used a sentence that a human being should "witness life and report the true meaning". He was high-class poet and driven guy. Ended up with schizophrenia - most probably he disattached himself into the imagination or all his inner aspects, so psyche just ate itself. Brilliant fact about him: he was able to describe and name a vast range of colours, i have never heard even those labels and he was aware that "yeah, reader is not able to undestand that so i dumb down my poetry, its necessary". In some sort of way any person does this.
4. World is somehow driven by fractured worldviews. People separate themselves from the world on any level there is: biological, psychological, social and evironments. Thus we experiance wide variety of ecologocially-centered people, groups or just politics oriented on that aspect. Environment, in biological terms, is in such approach the context that helds whole societies and nationalities. Whistleblowers, however they might appear, who stand for such issue are aware of that or just call out for such awareness to society. Background check will confirm they have other 'actual' reason, but maybe they grasp potential/worldview, which is more inclusive. Interdependencies are even more complicated, if we agree that it is next step of perceving reality.
5. Interconnected 'web of life' depends on simple terms: matter/biology/mind. To support that Wilber
